- Hey everyone. Hey Brian. Hey Dr. Becky. - Hey. - Hey. - So good to see you too. Everyone out in the live stream, thank you for being here. Please put comments and thoughts into the live chat. And with that, I guess we will kick it off.
>> Cool. Oh. >> Yeah, go ahead, Brian. Want me to do it?
>> Yeah. Aren't you going to do like the -- >> Yes, I have to figure out -- I forgot what
the episode number was. But it's 234. It's always different every time. It's so weird.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 234. And it's May 19th, 2021. I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
And we have our special guest, Dr. Becky Smithers.
Welcome.
Hi.
I wasn't sure whether I was supposed to introduce myself then.
I was like, "Should I jump in?
Should I wait?"
This is standard fare for our podcast.
We do a bad job preparing our guests for jumping in.
Welcome.
I love casual podcasts.
They're my favorite to listen to, and they're now my favorite to be a part of as well.
Yeah.
Nice.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So it's really good to have you here.
doing so many neat things out on the internet.
First of all, you're an astrophysicist
at University of Oxford.
- That is my day job, technically.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You've written some books.
You can tell folks about that.
You are doing quite a bunch of interesting things
over on YouTube, which is how I came to know you.
Your work on YouTube is really neat.
And yeah, maybe just tell people
real quickly about yourself.
- Yeah, sure, so I'm an astrophysicist.
My day job is essentially to study supermassive black holes
and figure out the effect that they have on their galaxies
and how they might stop their galaxies from forming stars,
which is kind of awesome.
I'm living the dream as an eight-year-old
to become like a natural space scientist.
And yeah, I just love talking about science and space
with people as well.
And I've sort of found my niche a little bit on YouTube,
really, that I can put out videos each week
about fun things in space or even react to old sci-fi
and stuff like that about what they got right
and what they got wrong necessarily.
And it's just a great platform to communicate with people
and respond to people's questions
that they've never been able to Google.
The tagline is your friendly neighborhood astrophysicist.
- Yeah, I absolutely recommend that people check out,
I don't know why that doesn't work.
I absolutely recommend that people check out
your YouTube channel, it is super neat.
And yeah, there's a ton of fun videos there.
They're very good sort of general science,
just like interested in science,
not scientists type of presentations.
So super cool, super cool.
All right, Brian, you got the first item, right?
You wanna take it away?
- Yeah, sure.
Dustin Ingram just recently released an updated version
of an article called "Powering the Python Package Index
in 2021.
Apparently there was one, I think,
like in the name, Donald Stuff did one about five years ago
to list how this was going on.
So this is one of the, this is kind of amazing to read.
There's just some cool information here.
There were three maintainers,
but it was mostly Donald five years ago.
And now there are still three maintainers,
but there's, it's Donald, Ernest Durbin,
and Dustin Ingram all doing the maintainers,
but there's also more people.
So there's more people involved.
There's five different moderators
and three committers that help with the project.
So that's neat.
And we've all seen, it's just,
people are using it a lot more
and it's a more central part of our everyday life.
So.
- Yeah, so what are some of the,
I remember one of the really interesting things
is just how much it costs to run PyPI.org
and the whole like all the data transfer behind the scenes
and stuff like that.
- Yeah, so let's jump to some of the data.
The data that they showed was just sort of mind blowing.
We've got,
we're up to 1.7 billion requests on PyPI per day,
sometimes in 55.4 terabytes every day.
five times more than even from 2018.
That's ridiculous.
- Yeah, so this is an amazing amount of data
goes through there.
And then they have data on files.pythonhosted.org.
Also, there's some data on there.
The money that goes into it,
Fastly takes care of a lot of the brunt of the work.
So Fastly apparently is donating about,
what's the number?
$1.8 million of services a month,
if we were to have to pay for the Fastly services directly.
- Oh my God.
- And they give PyPI a 100% discount, so that's great.
And about $10,000 worth of services a month from Google
and 7,000 from AWS, and then a whole slew of other people
that help out too, like Datadog, which is cool.
And then there's some other funding sources
that we've had some grants,
and we've talked about some of the grants that came through,
but these are funding some amazing projects
like the rewrite of PyPI, localization,
some malware detection,
which is really needed when everybody's depending on this.
And now some support staff,
they're hiring a project manager soon.
So.
- Yeah, that's fantastic.
Google came on as a visionary sponsor
specifically to work on this
and the security side of that, I believe.
Yeah, one of the things I didn't know about,
which we're going to provide a link to,
is the team maintains a thing called a fundables markdown page,
which is a non-exhaustive wish list of large projects
they'd like to see happen.
-Oh, nice. -So it'd be kind of...
It's sort of like looking forward, what are we going to do?
But it's, if we can do it, we'd like to do this.
So that's kind of neat.
That's amazing. I'd never stopped to think
about how much work and how many people must use PyPy,
PyPI, I don't know how you, I say PyPy.
But like, every time I type in pip now,
I'm gonna think differently.
Like it's just, to me it's just been there.
Yeah, now I feel like I should go to this fundables list
and like, pay, I don't know, like give something back
for all the types I've used it,
probably in frustration as well,
because something else works
and not appreciate it all the behind the scenes stuff.
- Yeah, the first time I learned about this,
I was blown away at how much it takes to keep it going.
And how much, you think about how much
we all depend upon this as people working in Python.
What if it went away tomorrow?
- Yeah, it was terrible.
- I didn't think about that.
(laughing)
Most scientific research would probably collapse.
- You know, one thing I wanted to ask you, Dr. Becky,
is I suspect that you use Conda and Anaconda a lot
in the data science space, or are you a pip person?
I'm a pip person.
I don't really use Condor.
Some of my colleagues do.
It's all just personal preferences, really.
I remember for a long time on the departmental computers, the ones that
were owned by the physics department, they didn't give you like install control.
And so pip wouldn't work and it drove me insane.
I had to beg them to put pip on.
I was like, no, you can only install like a software that has been approved
like by the IT department.
And I was just like, oh God.
This is not going to work.
I know.
Yeah, that's really rough.
All right, super cool. Well, I wanted to try to bring in some astronomy type things that have to do with Python.
Nice.
Because, of course, you're here, Dr. Becky.
And Shahran Ahmed, didn't really know that he contributed this to today, but just more of a general conversation item,
item put out on Twitter like, "Hey, I was looking for a Python-generated star atlas
like the Leuven Star Atlas."
Have you heard of this thing?
- No, I haven't.
The Herschel Star Atlas is the most famous one, but I'm guessing Leuven is a bit of an
update.
- It's a project by...
I'm starting to forget their name.
Let's see if I can...
Yeah, they just say "I".
I have to go back and pull it up later.
- Sure.
- They wrote this.
I doesn't help me, I'm sorry.
So it's the goals to make a publication quality
stellar Atlas from scratch using Python.
So it's pretty neat.
And the project's not finished
and who knows what the timeline is on it,
but I wanted to just give it a shout out more
as a way to think about what are the tools
that people are using for astronomy and Python
and also just building maps.
Maybe you want to build a map of something completely different.
Maybe you're really into river floating.
You want to build amazing maps of river floating or whatever.
You could take the public data and overlay the things
kind of like they did here.
So with this, I'll go and find some pictures down here
at the end.
It's quite a long article talking
about how all this works.
But there's some really neat graphics that we can find.
There we go.
So they've got pictures of stars, variable stars, galaxies,
nebula, planetary nebula, and all kinds of things that you might care about. Fast
moving stars, I suspect a lot of those might be
looping around black holes. What do you think? I mean yeah,
you probably wouldn't see those astrometrically, but you'll probably get
all those variable stars that vary in brightness.
Yeah, yeah. They call those out particularly with like a
a double circle type of icon. Yeah, yeah. So astrometrically means like the
astronomy position. So like incredibly precise. So those kind
of like what you just described like a wobble from a black hole orbiting it you probably wouldn't see
on a starless like this it'd be like too fine of a detail like too much too small of a change yeah
yeah cool so talks about how you go and create this thing says there's a one plot map.py that's
a thousand five hundred lines long trying to write all this together they talk about using the
in the different libraries.
So it was NumPy for all kinds of data handling.
It was PyLab and Matplotlib.
So all the graphics that you see here
are just layers of Matplotlib renderings
over and over and over.
Yeah, and then there was this library called BaseMap,
which takes care of projections and transformations
because I think one of the challenges was
how do you project this onto paper?
You know, when it's on a spherical thing.
I think they said they used stereographic projections.
I don't know.
- It sounds about right, yeah.
- That's all right, yeah.
SciPy, and then of course, Astropy,
which I know Dr. Becky used a lot, and then--
- Round of applause for Astropy.
- Woo!
And then PyEFM for celestial coordinate transformations.
So yeah, a lot of neat libraries on there.
Sounds like you've used Astropy.
Like any of the others sound familiar?
- All of them.
I've used every single one of those packages before.
Um, especially astropi, like I have the same problem with like, I've taken an
image with a telescope and it's been taken by a flat digital detector, but
there's coordinates that are sort of overlaid on that, that come from the
sort of the surface of a sphere.
You can think of it as right.
And so you project that down using astropi and pi FM as well, because
sometimes people work in different coordinates, so you can work in sky
coordinates, which is sort of how high you are above the horizon and how far
around you are, or you can work in galactic coordinates,
like with respect to the center of the Milky Way,
like how far out are you and round?
And I don't ever work in those,
but people who are Milky Way astronomers do,
and then you've got to like,
so some objects, their coordinates are given
in Milky Way coordinates and not sky coordinates.
So they'll have to have done so many transformations
to get maps like this.
What's cool about this map, it's the constellation Cygnus,
if you can see that there, that's the swan.
It looks like a big cross in the Northern sky.
But that is the constellation or the area of sky
that the Kepler space telescope stared at.
- Oh, nice.
So that's where the exoplanets have been discovered.
Yeah.
- Pretty much, yeah.
All of the exoplanets we know of,
so some like 5,000 of them will pretty much be
in that patch of sky.
So I'm really glad they chose that constellation.
- Oh yeah, how neat.
- To show this piece.
Yeah.
- How neat.
Yeah, and then over here, let's see if I can find it.
Talked about the sources of data.
There's all these different public sources of data
that they put together.
But then if you read through the article,
you'll find that they were talking about,
well, I think they spent a month and a half
getting this far on the project.
And they're like, well, I went through here
and I had to correct all these things
'cause they were, this data was a little bit off here
and that data was a little bit off there.
And then I had to label them.
And another thing that was talked about a lot is
how do you create these pictures without text that overlaps?
So you mentioned this thing's called adjust text
and where it'll actually take a matplotlib thing
with labels and then rearrange the labels on the graph
so that the text doesn't overlap, which is really cool.
And it has a nice-
- You just changed my life.
- Really?
- Yes, this is like a huge problem and it's been solved.
It exists and it's just Python code.
- God, I love when this happens.
- Isn't this cool?
It's awesome.
- I'm just stuck here like jaw on the floor,
like, oh, someone's faking it out.
- Well, that's awesome.
So yeah, there's a bunch of stuff.
And one of the things that I really took away from this
was it reminds me of this quote
that in the whole data science, scientific computing world,
like data cleaning isn't the grunt work,
it is the work sort of thing.
'Cause it's so much about,
oh yeah, I could just run these together,
but then I spent a month fixing this
and correcting that and offsetting that.
Yeah.
So pretty neat.
- That's really cool.
- Yeah, I guess the-
- I wanna know where I am in galactic coordinates.
- Not zero, zero.
- I can't remember off the top of my head,
but yeah, Earth does have galactic coordinates.
I just don't know what they are.
- So is the supermassive black hole
at the center of the universe,
is that at zero, zero, zero?
- The center of our galaxy, yeah.
So there's many galaxies in the universe,
our galaxy is the Milky Way.
The supermassive black hole at the center of it would be,
- Yes, L equals zero, B equals zero.
(laughs)
- Okay, awesome.
Awesome, yeah, I guess final thought is they say
it takes about four hours to generate this map
running using four cores running in parallel
to actually render it 'cause it has so much data
and whatnot, but anyway, pretty neat.
If you're looking to build maps with Python,
here's a bit of a case study, I suspect.
- Is it open source?
Like is it on GitHub?
Can you grab it yourself and have a play around?
- I wish, no, it's not.
I looked around, I couldn't find much of the code.
There's little snippets of code shown,
but yeah, that's all.
- I was thinking like, can I get a section of sky?
I'm gonna print out, I'm gonna frame it.
It's gonna look really cool.
- Yeah, this is the one I wanna put on the wall.
Yes, you seem like you could do that.
- Millennials love maps on walls.
- Exactly. - That's what I'm gonna do.
- All right, before we move on this,
just a quick shout out to Dr. Becky
from ProdFund on the live stream.
Yay, Dr. Becky is back.
Bought your book after watching
The live stream with michael really enjoyed it, even though you don't have a space background. So very cool. That's awesome
I'm, so glad you enjoyed it
Yeah. All right. Speaking of things that we couldn't all enjoy and can take us back calculators
Yes
I
I was thinking about how I haven't I haven't thought about my graphical calculator in a long time
Like I swear I was attached at the hip to that thing throughout high school
and then a little bit into university but not so much because they were like banned in our university exams because
They thought that like, it was, it was helpers cheat, I guess.
Like it was so weird going from high school where they were like,
use your graphical calculators.
And then at university they said, no, don't use them.
Um, and I remember thinking like after that, I barely even thought about it.
I don't even use it in my everyday, like work or life anymore.
When a lot of the things I do, I can just use Spotlight on my Mac to do a
quick calculation or whatever, I'll do it in terminal or something like that.
And then I saw this the other day, I was just amazed by it because I remember
this graphical calculator showing you, you could get up graphs of, you know,
like e to the X or sine X or cos X or something on your calculator, but the
screen like was, it was like an old Game Boy or like a Nokia 3310, right?
It was the most pixelated screen in the world.
And making those graphs was so frustrating.
Like it just wasn't intuitive.
It wasn't fun, I didn't think.
And then I saw this the other day where look at what like kids can use these days.
They have this graphical calculator that has this, you know, proper, beautiful,
actual color screen, and that you can use Python on to make plots and do calculations.
And I just think this is such a fantastic idea because teaching kids to code early
is so important. Like it can be used in so many different areas of work and life and
science and everything like that. But I always find learning to code without a purpose necessarily
is really difficult. Like just deciding one day, I'm going to learn how to code. Where
do you start? Like, unless you've got a project, like what do you do? So the idea of learning
as you're going through and actually learning the maths or learning the science with your
graphical calculator is so good because then it just starts to come naturally to you. It's
It's like the first thing you think of to do to solve a problem is to use Python.
So I'm just so excited that this is a thing and I hope it becomes like the calculator
that kids have to buy like if they're going to do math at like a higher level or something.
Yeah, it's so cool.
Instead of those weird programming languages that come, you know, like Polish notation,
reverse Polish notation and stuff, like this is preparing them for proper programming.
Exactly.
Yeah, and I think that if you learn it in this way, it will just become so second nature
that then it's not a barrier for you to go on and do anything else, right?
It just becomes a tool that you can use to solve problems like in science or in, you
know, sort of development or software development or something like that.
As you get into university and wider world, like having that knowledge from that age is
so good.
I mean, I got mine at like 16.
I don't know about if you guys remember when you got your graphical calculator,
but I feel like at that age I was impressionable and it stuck with me.
Exactly. Yeah, I think I might have gotten mine.
That really was a decent one right when I got to college.
But yeah, I had even had one of the TI-93s that had a full QWERTY keyboard on it for a while.
It was that big one. Yeah, that was fancy when I was a TA in grad school.
Yeah, that's the thing. I think I got them early because we specialize early in the UK.
So like I was only doing maths and science by 16 and 8 like 16 to 18. So that's why I got mine earlier
But yeah, like learning Python then would have been so helpful because I got to university and they were like, okay now time to learn
Python, but let's do it while we learn general relativity
Let's cut up some general relativity. I was like, oh, yeah, I'm still printing. Hello world
So the fact you can learn it there here is so cool, how do you type into this thing though
- Very slowly. - Like a calculator.
- Very slowly, first of all.
Yeah, I imagine it probably just has
like an old phone keyboard, so three letters per number,
but it might have one of the full QWERTYs
like Michael was talking about.
- I think it's the more skinny, tall ones,
the more like an old phone.
You know, it'd be awesome
if you could transfer Python files over,
but yeah, it has like a REPL and everything,
which is pretty interesting.
- I hope it'd have auto-complete.
- Yes, oh. - That would be great.
- Oh yeah, I hadn't even thought about that,
but yes, it had better.
So a couple of comments from the live stream,
Marcel says, "Polish notations are opposite of method chain."
Yeah, and Kim says, "Graphical calculators
"would have been really handy in high school.
"I never even seen one before.
"Got into engineering, Python,
"and reverse Polish notation, sounds tricky."
Then Pamphil Roy from the SciPy world says,
"Oh yeah, and Elsa told me you can't put things
"like SciPy on there, sadly."
But hopefully soon, maybe this is just,
you know, V1.
But yeah, I guess packages in general, right?
They talk about having turtle and stuff,
but you know, I'm not sure how much they have add-on.
- But how cool would it be to have SciPy on there?
Because then you could like plot a function
and then you could like optimize
and you could like find the solutions
to a function that way.
Probably skipping the differential equations
that you're supposed to be learning in math.
- Partial differential equations are easy.
I just say like solve and give it the number.
- Yeah, I would take your answers as I like.
- I think Turtles is kind of neat on there also
because I mean, I programmed a sub hunt
on my single line reverse Polish notation,
HP calculator just because I could sort of thing.
So I think doing some games in there, kind of neat.
- Yeah, yeah.
People definitely agree with you about how cool that would be.
- Yeah. - Awesome.
All right, before we move on to the next one,
let me tell you about our sponsor this week.
So this episode of Python Bytes is brought to you by Sintri.
I love Sintri, we use Sintri.
So how would you like to remove a little stress
from your life?
Do you worry that users might be having difficulties
or encountering errors with your app right now?
Would you even know if they did until they send that email?
How much better would it be to have error
or performance details immediately sent to you,
including call stacks, tracebacks,
values of local variables,
and even the logged in user that ran into the error.
With Sentry, it's not just possible, but it's simple.
We use Sentry, like I said, on all of our web apps,
on Python Bytes and Talk Python, Talk Python Training courses.
And I actually had somebody run into an error.
I got a Sentry notification
that this user had a problem doing this thing.
I fixed it and sent them an email and they said,
"Oh, that is incredible.
"I was about to email you about this problem I had,
"but it was late, so I was gonna do it tomorrow
"and you already fixed it."
So what a surprise.
So surprise and delight your users today.
Create your Sentry account at pythonbytes.fm/sentry.
And when you sign up, please,
there's a button that says, get a promo code.
Make sure that you enter Python bytes,
all caps, all one word in there,
and you'll get the team plan,
which gives you more features and more errors and so on.
Not that you want more errors,
but maybe more features is good.
So pythonbytes.fm/sentry and promo code Python bytes.
Brian, you got the next one.
Okay, I got to say, though, that the artwork on that Git Sentry page was great.
Yeah, it's very cool. Well done.
So I've been trying to shift doing a little bit more work
with GitHub Actions on my projects.
But there's probably great documentation somewhere.
I just don't know where it is.
And I'm impatient, so I kind of want somebody to just say,
"For Python, this is what you do."
So there's a few of these walkthroughs, but I like this one that I just saw recently.
This one's Python package, CICD with GitHub Actions.
Just write what it says on the tin.
But this is a nice walkthrough of some of the different things,
and they're going through an example project, of course, but it's nice.
The talks, first off, talks about
kind of when you want actions to happen.
So in talking about when they happen,
this project happens on pull requests and on push to certain branches.
So in this case, main branch,
so you really can pick several branches that you could do this on
and to have actions happen on those.
I kind of like having a couple of different development branches,
especially on things that I'm active on and don't want to release yet.
So these are nice.
And then what else?
I'm going through a matrix of stuff.
So most of the article is talking about syntax checking on different things.
I don't know if really that's important,
but I would probably do a Pytest on multiple matrices.
So, but the matrix, the notion of a matrix is kind of interesting,
the having the different environments.
So in this case, this person is talking about
maybe running on multiple versions of Python
across Ubuntu, macOS and Windows.
And that's exactly what I want.
Those sorts of combinations
to make sure something's working.
- So with all the devices and stuff that you have,
do you see this maybe as a network as well,
like with all the hardware devices
and the different ways it's configured?
- Well, couldn't use GitHub actions,
but we definitely use matrices
to figure out which tests have to run on different configurations,
different hardware, and it's just exploding.
But yeah, that's a different nightmare.
But this one is taken care of for you.
So it's a neat thing to test across all those.
And I knew how to do it on TOCs, I knew how to do it on Travis,
and getting it to work and get have actions is just different.
It's not harder, it's just different.
So I appreciate this walkthrough.
And then, what, going through running,
example of running tests, of course,
and checking artifacts, which is interesting.
I hadn't thought about that.
Your build might generate documents
or other artifacts that you want to keep around.
Having some checks around those is a good idea too.
And then the last couple of bits,
and really why I'm highlighting this
is because I didn't really know how to do this,
is doing auto-merges on some branches.
So there's some branches that you,
like maybe you're maintaining
and nobody else has access to,
but if you push to that, you want test to run
and then automatically to merge to something
and have it setting up auto merge.
There's some steps around that,
which is pretty darn cool.
And the last bit is pushing to PyPI.
So releasing-- - Oh, nice.
- Release automation so you can automatically,
in this case, setting up a rule
so that if you push a tag that starts with a V,
that means you've updated the version
and you want that to push automatically out to PyPI.
So hooking that up with GitHub Actions.
- That's clever.
I'd never thought about triggering it off of a tag name.
I've always thought of it just certain branch means go,
but yeah, that's clever.
- Yeah, so that way you can even have like a main branch
that has updated things,
but it doesn't get pushed until there's a new version,
which makes sense.
- Yeah.
Dr. Becky, what's the story with GitHub Actions
and all of your colleagues, people use it?
Oh, you're muted.
- I had a drink and I spared you from hearing me gulp
before, yeah, I don't even think I know what,
I've used GitHub Actions to be quite honest.
I'm sure some of my colleagues,
I use GitHub all the time, obviously,
but GitHub Actions,
Try to remember. I don't think so
Yeah, i'm sure somebody has them, but yeah, i'm sure some people maintain some of the packages and stuff
That's what I was thinking. Yeah, I don't think I have anything like that
um to maintain a lot of my colleagues put out stuff, but really my code is for sort of
My use and for any specific colleague that has like a science case use for it
um
But github, I mean, I love github because one of the things I love doing with it is committing when i've written like a scientific paper
I'll even put the latex on GitHub, what we sort of code our scientific writing in, right?
And the PDF is included in your commits and then you can make a GIF from your commit history of
like your PDF, like building up, like adding plots and all the words adding. It's one of my favorite
things to do once I've finished because it feels like it's like, "Oh, I've done this project and
And now I can like see it fully take form.
And I remember I wrote my thesis,
my entire PhD thesis in about two months
because I got a job and I had to finish my PhD
and I had to write it up.
And I don't remember much from that whole two months time.
It's a huge blur,
except one vivid memory of the fire alarm going off
in the department and being like,
"Panic, git commit, git abolish."
(laughing)
Remember this I've got this one commit message in my thesis repo. That's basically just I just mullet the key
It's just like the firewall is going on
It commit anything
Get pushed cuz I was like what if like what if I don't have a backup of like the past eight hours of writing
I've just done it was a huge book and I was just like not losing this and people were like pulling me out of the
room
But yeah that reminds me of a sign I saw once yes
Case of fire one get commit to get
I
Actually went through this but during a PhD thesis write-up, which I would never recommend to anybody
I'm amazed that you found this image so fast. Oh, yeah
I got you.
A couple of comments from the live stream.
Justin Boyce says, "Love being able to use GitHub Actions
for deployment.
Keeps me from botching deployment by making mistakes."
I agree.
Do it more often if it's automatic.
And then Jared Chung says, "Looks great.
Definitely going to hook this up to the packages I maintain,
which change infrequently,
so you don't have to remember the workflow and so on."
And finally, Marcel Milsent says,
"I heard GitHub is now offering free tier for institutions
with unlimited contributors for private repos and $2,000,
there are 2,000 actions a month for $0.
So, yeah.
- That goes alongside with the academics package as well,
right, for students.
It's not just students, it's also anybody with like a
.edu email or .ac.uk, which is the universities over here.
So I have like a, loads of free repos and stuff like that,
which is great.
I'm so good at that. - Oh, yeah, fantastic.
Cool, cool.
All right, moving on to number five.
Not this one, this one.
- Another spacey one.
Garrett Dunn gave us a shout out saying,
"SpaceX is now using Python for prototyping
their Starlink satellite software."
Which I don't know how you feel about Starlink, Dr. Becky.
I mean, as an astronomer, it's like in your way,
but as a way to empower people in remote places,
it's kind of cool.
- I'm really split about it to be honest,
'cause I want it to go ahead.
I think it's a really cool project, but I think there's more compromises need to be
made in order for it to work in the way that it could, like the most efficiently the way
that it could.
And I know like even before this launched, I'd take an image and I'll end up with a satellite
trail and at least one of 10 I've taken at a telescope that evening.
And there's going to be more, right?
Exactly.
Yeah.
And it's not like something you can remove.
People are like, "Oh, just remove it as a source of noise."
thing goes like right over your, you know, 15 minute exposure of a galaxy that's
billions of light years away.
And this massive bright thing just goes right over the middle.
It ruins it, right?
There's no rescuing that.
So I do want it to go ahead.
I do want it to work, but it's really cool that they're going to use Python.
Like that could be something we could get warnings from, you know, like if it's
something as accessible as Python, so to say something's going over, pause
observation, carry on or something like that, you know?
- Yeah, I would actually love to see SpaceX work
more closely with all the satellite locations,
observatories and say, all right,
here's how we're gonna help you solve this problem.
- Yeah, that would be great.
- Yeah, diving into this.
So Stack Overflow actually did a four part series
on the software that SpaceX used
to build all of their things in space.
And this one in particular is about the network protocols.
So if you look at how the Starlink system works,
it turns out that most of the stuff is C++,
both on the ground systems and the things in the sky.
So they talk about that their software breaks
into two parts, software that flies
and software that supports the things that fly.
So the software that flies is all C++
that's on the embedded chips on the satellites.
But then on the ground,
there's a whole bunch of communication APIs
and coordination APIs.
If you look over at where these satellites are
and where they're covering,
there's these cool real-time maps.
I'll put one on the screen here.
You can actually see them flying by here
where Brian and I are,
at least I'll zoom in on that area.
And you can see the overlap of the signals
of the different ones and how they're oriented
and all kinds of stuff.
So they need to adjust and move these satellites around
in orchestration and orchestrate them basically.
So the software that does that,
it's in production version in C++,
but they do a lot of simulations and prototyping in Python
to figure out how that works.
'Cause, you know, think about the in-body problem,
but for thousands or hundreds of thousands of these things
to keep them all working together,
the combinatorics of it get out of control really quick,
they say.
So there's a lot of simulations that need to be done
and they do that in Python.
And then once they get the working version,
then they rewrite that in C++.
What do you think?
This is a cool picture, right?
- Yeah, that's really cool.
- Yeah, and speaking of GitHub Actions,
they probably are actually using GitHub for this,
but it doesn't explicitly say,
but you think of organizations
that have a hard time deploying their code,
like you'll go to a website,
like our website is down all of Sunday
because we're deploying a new version.
Like, are you kidding me?
This is 2021.
Like this should be Git push, wait a few seconds, and it's now the new version.
Anyway, this is pretty interesting because they say the software is developed
in a continuous integration environment with teams merging into the master development branch often
and deploying to all the satellites weekly.
That adds an extra level of panic to your Git push, doesn't it?
It definitely does.
Oh, whoops, I wasn't ready.
All the satellites stopped responding.
Whoops.
So yeah, it says the Python version allows them
to wrap for rapid iteration during the design phase.
And once it's all happy, they write in C++.
So yeah, anyway, pretty cool.
I'll link to some of these maps that track it
and the four-part series and so on.
So Garrett, thank you for that.
- It's really cool to see,
'cause it's very similar to what Space Telescope
are doing for the James Webb Space Telescope.
Sorry, Space Telescope is the institution in Baltimore
that manages like the Hubble Space Telescope
and the new one that's gonna hopefully launch in October
is called the James Webb Space Telescope.
And I think that's a similar sort of platform
in that a lot of the spacecraft sort of mechanics
is done with sort of the usual comms that they have,
possibly C++, but a lot of the tools they put together
for astronomers who are planning observations,
like where to point, how long that will take,
and all those kinds of things when they're sort of deciding,
I wanna use this to do this science,
that's all been done in Python.
like all of the sort of tutorials of like how to figure out how much like James Webb
space telescope be able to see of this thing you want to look at is all done in like iPython
notebooks.
Do you buy it?
I guess we should call them now.
So it's really cool to see that like it's you know it's it's not just like these major
academic institutions that are picking up Python because they know it's the academics
that use that but it's companies like SpaceX as well I guess because they know their employees
like work well with Python.
- Oh, that's really cool.
I knew a lot of the telescopes were using Python,
but that's gonna be a massive new telescope.
The James Webb telescope's gonna be a big deal, right?
- Yeah, it's gonna be a huge deal.
We've all got fingers crossed that launch actually happens
'cause it was originally planned for 10 years ago
and three years ago and five years ago.
- Oh my gosh.
Yeah, fingers crossed, I guess, for coming soon.
All right, Dr. Becky, you got the next one.
Yeah, so I feel like I've done the scientist thing of bringing a scientific
paper to a Python podcast, but I'm bringing what I know.
So I found this paper a while back when I was sort of doing the thing of like,
you're an expert in something because you know what to Google.
I was looking for something and I found this paper, the beginner's guide
to working with astronomical data.
And it's very much written as if you're a poor PhD student that's come in and
your professor said, "Hey, here's a lot of data,
please analyze it."
And you're like, "I don't know where to start."
So that's kind of who it's written for.
And I think if you are a really keen amateur astronomer,
and I know a lot of people do want to get into
astrophotography and possibly did during the pandemic
with lockdowns and stay at home orders,
and perhaps might have set up something
with like a Raspberry Pi, you know,
to control a telescope, to know where it's pointing,
something like that, or even to adapt it with a camera as well.
And then they have all these images that they then want to remove noise and get
like a beautiful color image of something as well, and they're not entirely sure
how to do it, but they might know Python.
I use Python to, you know, analyze the images that come off the
back of professional telescopes.
So you could do it with amateur telescopes or amateur camera, you know,
just an SLR camera you've set up in your back garden to take an image of something.
But you want to see fainter and fainter things.
You have to take lots and lots of like short images so you don't get, you know,
motion blur and stuff like that with the, with actually the rotation of the earth.
But they're all the wrong coordinates.
So what do you do?
So because they're not all in the same place, so you use astropy to figure out,
you know, how to do this.
Does it like realign the images to adjust for that rotation?
Exactly.
Yeah, yeah.
It can do that.
And so, but there's obviously lots of other steps that you need to do,
like taking out noise.
So this actually talks through like all of the steps that would go
into what a professional would do.
And I reading it, I think it's so well-written that I think someone who is
a really keen amateur and who wants to get into astrophotography and do the.
You know, reduction of, as we call it, of the images, you know, make them
look extra pretty by the end of it with Python, because they're a keen Python person.
I think this would be the thing to be like, right, I'm going
to make this my bedtime reading.
It's very, very long, but I think you could definitely make this like a project
if someone was keen enough to do.
And so that's why I thought I'd, I'd bring it.
And I feel like obviously we need a huge shout out to AstroPy and Map.lib
and everything like that for making these kinds of things possible with, you know,
images that you can take in your back garden and, and, and stuff that you can
get at, but you know, this, you know, someone in a, in a month or so, they're
really keen on Python and they're really keen on taking photos of the night sky.
You could be getting images of galaxies and nebula that look amazing, you know?
So that's why I thought I'd bring it out.
Yeah.
Print it out and put it up as artwork in your house or something.
That'd be fantastic.
Instead of just saying, that's a, that's a cool picture of a galaxy.
Like I took that picture of that galaxy.
That's totally different.
Exactly.
Yeah.
You know, I can imagine someone getting an amazing picture of Andromeda, you
know, and following these steps that it outlies, and I think it's easier because,
especially if you know Python, there's no learning curve with a new tool or a
new or like frustration with a GUI right that's just this like interface what's going on I don't
have to use it because it's just pure Python I think it if you already know Python it's definitely
the easiest way to get into this because it'll be something familiar with with something new
so even though it's a scientific paper it would get would pass so yeah it looks super interesting
the code doesn't look terribly challenging but you know it's exactly what you need to solve the
the problems, right?
- Exactly, yeah.
- Cool, cool.
All right.
I think that's it for our six items.
Brian, you got anything?
- No, I just apologize to the stream people.
For some reason, my video stream is frozen.
- I think that you might just be really, really zen
and still.
- I thought he was just really interested in the paper,
but he was like, wow, look at that.
- You've mesmerized him, absolutely.
All right, so before we move on, actually,
Justin Boyd says, "Thanks for bringing this, Dr. Becky.
"I did pick up astrophotography barely as a hobby
"during the pandemic and it looks good."
So yeah, already, I already got one person into it.
- Taking that like biggest step to go from like,
"Oh, cool, I managed to photograph some stars,"
to getting like the galaxy's nebula.
I think this will help people take that step, I think so.
- Yeah, for sure.
- I'm glad it helped.
- All right, I got a couple of quick shout outs at the end.
First, I want to point out that if you like this conversation,
check out episode 303 of Talk Python,
where Dr. Becky and I dive all into the Python astronomy
world.
That was fun.
And then I just met with one of the founders of this company
called Kubuntu Focus, which I thought
was a pretty interesting idea.
So what they're going for is the way that Apple works.
They make the Mac and then they make macOS
and that tight integration of those two things
works better than just bringing pieces together
and building your own sort of thing, right?
So that's sort of the same idea, but for Linux.
And so it's really focused on people who do AI type of work
or just wanna have a really good desktop Linux environment.
So for example, down here at the bottom,
keeping it in the space world,
we have Chris Mattman, who if I refresh it,
it'll come up at the right time maybe,
and it's supposed to cycle.
Anyway, Chris Mattman said he, who works at JPL,
who he did some machine learning training
on his MacBook Pro and it took like 37 hours.
And on this thing, because they have these crazy GPUs,
these like GeForce 3080s and stuff in the laptop,
they did it in like an hour and a half
instead of 37 hours or whatever it was.
So, and by the way, you can actually buy it.
Like these new GeForce chips are cards.
They're basically unobtainium, right?
You can't get to them.
So yeah, anyway, pretty, pretty interesting.
If you're looking for a desktop Linux world, check that out.
Dr. Becky, anything you would like to give a shout out to?
Maybe I could throw out your Amazon page.
Anything else? - Yeah, sure.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, so I've written a book.
So it's got different names everywhere in the world,
just to confuse everybody.
So in the US and Canada,
It's called Space at the Speed of Light in the UK and pretty much
everywhere else in the world.
It's Space 10 Things You Should Know.
And then there's also the German edition as well, which I'll not explain.
Das kleine Buch von Groen Knall.
Groen Knall.
Yeah, exactly.
It's a good book title.
Um, it's, it's essentially, it's written for, I think anyone who is a
complete beginner in space, but has always maybe been a bit, a bit
curious would love this book.
It's, it's like the 10 things that if you were going to be at a dinner party
you'd be like, "Hey, did you know this?"
Like, these are the things you should know about space, right?
But I also think that anybody who's been keen on space as well,
will also get a kick out of it.
Um, because it takes ideas that you might've heard before, but then
just adds an intellectual level, of like where we are right now on the
edge of like our understanding of this thing.
So, it's a really short read as well.
Um, it's not heavy, it's not a big hefty thing.
It's really skinny.
My laptop's currently propped on top of it, otherwise I would show you how skinny it is.
I've disrupted everything.
So, yeah, if people want to check that out, please do.
Or if you have, I don't know, an uncle or an aunt or a nephew or a niece or whatever that you think would like that.
I've been told it's a good gift.
So...
Rahen asks, "Is it really big?" Nope, it's not that big.
It's about 200 pages.
Yeah, Proudman says, "I can vouch for the book." Yeah, absolutely.
- Thank you, Bevan.
- And then it also says that Brian imported Zen.
(laughing)
- I've got a close friend that has a telescope
and he always wants to talk about space and I know nothing.
So I'm definitely gonna read this book
so I can talk to him.
- There you go, yeah.
Perfect for that.
- All right, I have, we always close out the show
with a joke, but I went and found some space memes
'cause Dr. Becky is here.
And you've done a couple of videos
on reacting to space memes.
And so I thought maybe some space memes
would be appropriate as our jokes for the week.
- Yeah, they're so fun because people click on them
and they're like, I just learned more
in this 15 minute video about space memes
than I did in my entire high school career in physics.
And I'm like, that was always my intention.
Wow.
(laughing)
I draw you in with the memes
and then I hit you with the science.
- Exactly, exactly.
It's so good.
Yeah, so maybe we can link to some
of the proper ones you've done there's a lot.
So I'm gonna throw out four quick little space memes.
I think four is it.
So I gotta remember what the names,
I gave them each a title.
So the first one is Uber.
So there's Matt Damon sitting on ours alone.
Remember he gets abandoned there and he says,
"Where's my Uber?"
And then there's the Elon Musk roastery shot in his face.
I'll be there in a minute.
(laughing)
- I mean, I don't know whose definition of minute that is.
Seriously, why did they launch a Tesla into space?
Every time I'm reminded that they did this, I'm like, but why?
I know.
But why?
There's no reason.
Because they could.
I think that was, just because they could, they never stopped to think whether they should.
Yeah.
Well, it's the same company that is rocking Dogecoin.
So you know.
All right.
Next one.
This one called "Flaws, Spaceship Design."
Here's a picture of a spaceship with a cutout
so you can see inside.
It says, "When building a spaceship,
the tiniest details are crucial.
For example, this spaceship may be flawed
because it has a giant hole in the side."
(both laughing)
- I love Brian's squeak laughing.
That's the level he's reaching.
- That's awesome.
And yet he's still very still in this.
I do love these like they're like a hybrid between a really scientific diagram and then
something you would put out to the public or use in a talk or something like that and
I remember the ELT, the extremely large telescope that we're building which I know is a stupid
name, they used emperor penguins for scale next to it in like the public image.
I was like, who knows how big an emperor penguin is?
Is that like a knee height? Is that a waist? What are we talking here?
Apparently it's because on average an emperor penguin is a meter high.
So they were like, oh, it's a meter. It's like a meter rule.
And I was like, yeah, but nobody knows that. Like just put a human.
Dean links them out there in the live stream says, boy,
the mileage on that Tesla would make it really hard to resell. I agree.
All right, the next one is distracted. There's a cat in a space suit
It says mesmerized by the red dot on the wall missed space launch
I'm now wondering if there's been any like cat astronauts in in previous. There's been dog astronauts
monkey astronauts, but
I don't know if we've ever sent a cat to space
I propose a new
Thing like maybe a cat could spend some time on the international space station. Just
Think of all the memes and all the funny videos.
I don't think it would have a good time.
It constantly tries to have its hackles raised, but it can't because it's in zero G.
It just goes in a small circle really slowly.
Yeah, maybe, you know how there's those videos online where they put cellotape on the back of
a cat and it constantly crouches to go under something that's not there? Maybe it would
do something like that. I don't know, I'm really intrigued now. A cat in zero-g, what would it do?
Benfield says, "Congo tried to send a rat."
Once they've sent a rat, they're going to need a cat to solve the rat in space problem.
And they said, also, Justin says, "Space toys are hard. Space litter boxes are nearly impossible."
And Sam Worley is like, "You really think they could get a cat to go into a space rocket?"
The minute they open the door of the space rocket, the cat will just dart onto the bed,
but you can't get it. Like, when you take it, it's the vet.
All right, let's round it out. The last one, space Vegas.
There's a black hole. What happens in a black hole stays in a black hole.
Nice. Space Vegas. I like it.
That's right. Yeah. I know we talked about this one before, but it made it in a second time.
I guess instead of sin city would it be like spin city?
Because spin city yeah I don't know spin city yeah maybe something like that.
Things rotate as they go into the black hole right they don't just go straight do they?
Yeah yeah it's actually really really hard to grow a black hole and make stuff fall in
which everyone's always really surprised at because they think they're like hoovers
but most stuff just orbits them like the earth orbits the sun it's just a kind of a heavier
sun that we can't see right so most stuff orbits it doesn't fall in and it takes a lot of effort
to make stuff fall in. So nice. Well, once it's in, it stays there. Yeah. Fantastic. All right.
Well, Dr. Becky, thanks for being here. It was really great to have you and Brian.
Thanks. Good to be with you. Yeah, you bet. Bye everyone.